ladies and gentlemen welcome to the
horror mine where we talk about
mysteries thrillers and horror movies my
name is vic shy and in this video i'll
be going over the newly released netflix
original horror film no one gets out
alive allegedly no one gets out alive is
the movie adaptation of the 2014 novel
of the same name written by british
author adam neville neville also wrote
the book which inspired the beloved
netflix original film the ritual the
film tells the story of an undocumented
immigrant from mexico named ambar who
moves into a boarding house in cleveland
after the death of her mother ombar must
overcome demons from her past while
facing off against the scariest thing of
all the u.s job market all while living
in a cheap creepy boarding house with
strange residents and mysterious things
hiding in the night i'll be explaining
the events that take place throughout
the film and giving my interpretation of
the ending and its meaning i'll also be
explaining the connection of this film
in 2017's the ritual and why these two
films are set in the same universe no
one gets out alive explores themes of
grief sacrifice and the struggles that
undocumented immigrants face for simply
trying to live a better life if you
enjoy this video make sure to click the
like button and help keep me from having
to face the intimidating job market but
without further ado sit back and relax
and join me as we explore this strange
and creepy boarding house and no one
gets out alive allegedly our movie
begins with old camera footage from 1963
showing an excavation somewhere in
mexico led by a professor named arthur
wells a stone box is discovered
surrounded by moths and brought to the
surface in the present day a woman is
having a phone conversation in
portuguese and expresses her regret
about having left home she says that she
has been having bad dreams and wants to
come home in the background a tv is
broadcasting a news report about illegal
immigration into the u.s the lights
suddenly go out and the mysterious stone
box appears before her before she is
presumably killed off screen by a
ghostly woman we meet our main character
ambar who is illegally smuggled into
cleveland ohio from mexico she has no
legal documents which keep her from
being able to obtain a decent job she
currently works at a sewing factory and
has a really douchy boss she sees a
flyer on a bulletin advertising a
boarding house with cheap rooms only for
women she moves into the creepy boarding
house and meets the owner red wells who
recently inherited the house from his
father professor arthur wells her only
current roommate is a woman named freya
who doesn't speak much english
where's she from
they don't speak english to shay red he
shows her to her room and goes over a
couple basic house rules ombar must pay
a deposit worth of one month's rent up
front which if we look back at the ad in
the newspaper is one thousand dollars
she is reluctant to pay the hefty
deposit but sees no other choice ambar
listens to a voice message on her phone
left by her deceased mother and also has
dreams about the time she spent with her
in the hospital she runs into freyja in
the hallway and her english seems a
little better than red led on red is
full of [ __ ]
apparently we see two ghosts standing on
the floors above looking down which
eerily reminded me of lisa from silent
hills pt ombar's co-worker kinsey knows
a guy who could make her a fake id from
texas at the cost of three thousand
dollars she has dinner with her uncle
beto and his family who sets her up with
a job interview but says it is important
she brings her id she returns home
wearing a warm coat given to her by her
aunt and is drawn to a sound coming from
the locked basement she goes to
investigate and see scratch marks on the
door frame which is never a good sign
red tells her that the basement is off
limits and she asks him for her deposit
bag needing it to pay for her id now
this next scene took me completely by
surprise and blew my mind a radio
broadcast briefly talks about four
friends that went missing in the swedish
wilderness
this is a reference to the 2017 netflix
original horror film the ritual and
shows that these two films take place in
the same universe it refers to luke
hutch dom and phil who went hiking in
the swedish wilderness after the death
of their friend robert the lads were
eventually killed one by one by a
mysterious monster-like demigod named
modar dom was offered as a sacrifice to
modar by a crazy cult who fear and
worship the god in exchange for eternal
life luke came face to face with modar
and was able to escape from the creature
by facing his personal demons and
overcoming his cowardice
however according to the broadcast in
this film all four friends are still
missing showing that luke never made it
home and leaving his fate a mystery if
you look at the top left of the screen
you can actually see the ritual playing
on the tv on top of the refrigerator in
the background both books that these
films are adapted from were written by
british author adam neville which
supports the theory that they take place
in the same universe that night she has
another dream of her mother in the
hospital but this time the stone box
makes an unexpected cameo
she has a conversation with kinsey where
she reveals that she lied to her uncle
about her citizenship status for the job
we learned that ombar's mother was
constantly getting sick and she kept
having to put her own future on hold to
take care of her she states that once
her mother passed she felt relieved and
that she could finally start her own
life like the good friend she is kinsey
offers to put up her own money to cover
the rest of the id cost ambar extremely
grateful gives kinsey the money for her
id on her way home we see that ambar is
being followed by the ghost of her
mother
she comes home and finds red's brother
becker banging his head on the basement
door and mumbling something becker later
stands in front of her room and leaves
the white hand of saruman on her door
ombar meets two romanian women maria and
petra who are possibly prostitutes and
go have some fun in red's room while red
is distracted anbar sneaks into his
father's study she listens to a creepy
audio tape explaining some type of
ritual involving the sacrifice of the
elderly women and children
she sees a picture of arthur and mary
wells along with the mysterious stone
box taken in tenochtitlan which was the
capital of the aztec empire the next day
ombar discovers that kinsey quit the
factory and isn't answering any of her
phone calls it becomes clear that kinsey
was playing ombar all along and scammed
her of her money making this one of the
top five anime betrayals her luck goes
from bad to worse when she is then fired
from her job that night while taking a
shower she hears the faint screams of a
woman yelling for help coming from the
drain
she briefly sees what appears to be
freyja and her shower curtain but red
says she moved out a couple days ago he
also says that he is now willing to give
her back the deposit um
tomorrow i would have been like no dude
not tomorrow now well now for now
but now you will now stop you are now
please stop
i can't let you get close in one of the
film's creepiest scenes ombar sees the
crying ghost of a young woman pleading
with another ghost named mary mary says
that she must prepare her or arthur will
hurt them both ombar is obviously
frightened but keeps walking towards the
sound of her cries my friends if i hear
crying i start running the ghost of the
young woman is then suddenly grabbed by
a large hand and dragged into the
basement
she calls her uncle berto to tell him
the truth about her citizenship and begs
him to come pick her up unfortunately
uncle beto is out of town and she is
going to have to make it on her own for
a few days she is plagued by further
eerie visions of her mother whose facial
expressions seem almost judgmental she
meets red at a diner where he tells her
that he left her money back at the house
he says that he and becker had a
disagreement over giving her back the
money and red appears to have a cut on
his lip and a couple of bruises on his
face becker is much more physically
imposing than red and most likely beats
on his brother when they have a
disagreement red brings umbar back to
the house and just as everyone probably
suspected it was a trap i was gonna help
you get up
i hope you know that part was true
becker enters the room looking
intimidating as hell and chants the same
phrase previously heard on the tape in
the study
maria and petra retreat into ombar's
room and all three plan to leave when
becker and red are asleep they tell
ombar that they too have been
experiencing nightmares and have also
seen the mysterious stone box ombar
wakes up from another nightmare to the
brothers trying to take maria and petra
away uncle barros suddenly arrives at
the residence looking for ambar he
notices ombar's coat behind him and
rushes into the house to look for her i
know that it was his emotional and
compulsive reaction to run in and rescue
his knees but the smart thing to do
would have been to retreat and call the
police he just ran inside of the house
completely unaware of the dangers inside
and could have avoided this
in this movie's insane climax it is
revealed that red and becker have been
luring women with cheap rent only to use
them a sacrifice in an ancient aztec
ritual they have been sacrificing women
to the aztec goddess eats papalot who
has been inhabiting the stone box all
along the stone box was taken from
tenochtitlan by professor wells and
brought back to their home in america
unbeknownst to the professor the stone
box contained its papa
the aztec goddess of death and rebirth
professor wells became insane because of
the box's influence and began luring
women to the home as sacrificed to the
goddess his wife mary initially helped
the professor endlering the woman but
was eventually killed and sacrificed by
the professor himself ambar previously
saw an exact moment in time depicting
mary preparing a young woman for the
will hurt ritual both
red and becker moved back into their
family home after becker became ill and
could not afford the medical bills they
discovered the horrible things their
father had done and killed him however
becker also became influenced by the
boggs and continued to sacrifice women
to the goddess in return for each
sacrifice offered to the goddess
becker's illness gradually got better
the ritual was hinted at and briefly
explained on the audio tape from
professor wells
[Music]
a picture depicting the ritual and its
papalotla was also seen inside of a book
in the study the back of becker's head
has very thick pulsating veins which
seem to imply that he is actually being
possessed by the goddess to do her
bidding this would explain why both he
and his father were chanting in an
ancient language while he doesn't appear
to have lost complete control he has
lost all his sense of reasoning ombar is
carried off by becker and we see the
ghosts of all the women who were
previously sacrificed showing that the
ghosts in the house weren't the actual
threat and instead appeared to the
living women as a warning she is chained
to a stone table and becker drags away
the decapitated body of maria he begins
chanting the ancient language and opens
the stone box revealing
one embarrassing snapshot of spongebob
at that christmas party
not quite patrick but thank you the
inside of the box reveals a long dark
tunnel showing that eats papa lots
doesn't actually inhabit the box itself
rather the box acts as a passage and
extension to the mythical world the
goddess inhabits tamo and chan several
ruth chilean moths commonly associated
with the goddess fly out of the box and
were constantly seen throughout the film
following ambar similar to modar from
the ritual it's papalot is able to play
visual mind tricks with its victims by
preying on their emotional trauma the
goddess tricks ombar into thinking uncle
beto is still alive this shows that the
goddess possibly likes to prey on her
victims and give them a false sense of
hope right before killing them in
reality ambar is fast asleep on the
stone table having another dream of
being with her mother in the hospital in
a truly chilling scene the goddess
emerges from the box and reveals her
true form
similar to the amazing creature design
of modar it's papalot looks absolutely
intimidating and breathtaking
you're breathtaking as the goddess
approaches ombar preparing to kill her
we see that she is using ombar's guilt
toward her mother as bait to keep her
asleep ambar realizing that this is all
a trick and that she must wake up
smothers her mother with a pillow she
kills the vision of her mother which
wakes her up and causes the goddess to
retreat now we are never told what her
mother's exact illness was or how she
died as ambar always kept it very vague
mommy got sick
and then she'd get better and things
would get bad again and ambar seemingly
kills her mother in the vision but i
believe that this actually occurred in
real life throughout the film amar is
being followed and haunted by her
mother's ghost she appears physically
different than the other ghosts and
gives ambar some pretty judgmental looks
it is my belief that ombar's weakness is
not from the grief of losing her mother
but in fact from the guilt of killing
her this is what the goddess is preying
on and utilizing against ambar but why
would she kill her mom in a conversation
with kinsey ombar states i was relieved
when it was all over
i could finally leave for any start she
kept having to put her own plans and
future on hold to take care of her dying
mother she decided to put her out of her
misery and move on with her life this is
evident in her reaction to when kinsey
says i love them but life will be so
much easier without them
when ambar kills her mom in her dream
she is acknowledging and finally comes
to terms with the terrible thing she has
done this weakens the goddess's grasp on
ambar and forces her to retreat this is
just like when luke came to terms with
his role in robert's death in the ritual
both more and its papalot exploited the
main character's guilt and emotional
trauma and used it against them both
luke and ombar successfully overcome
their personal demons and defeat their
respective god modar and its papalot are
both worshiped by those willing to
sacrifice others for their own health
and the promise of eternal life each
papalot is known as the goddess of death
and rebirth she needs an offering in
form of a sacrifice and in turn gives
life to the individual performing the
ritual ombar takes a look inside of the
box and sees the small skeleton of its
papalot seemingly defeated from having
unsuccessfully killed ambar as she is
about to leave the house she hears the
screams of petra struggling with becker
she sees an old aztec sword displayed on
the wall called a maqua wield the sword
is made of wood and has several sharp
obsidian stones embedded on its side
becker feels that something is wrong and
tells red to go check
something's different he says this
because the sacrifice was unsuccessful
and he did not receive its benefits red
steps outside the room and gets
absolutely wrecked by ambar becker is
much more physically imposing and throws
onboard to the ground he then brutally
steps on and breaks her ankle just like
he did her uncle with becker distracted
petra attempts to flee but it doesn't go
so well for her
becker then tries to choke the life out
of ombar but she manages to slice his
neck using a piece of obsidian she then
finishes him off mortal kombat style by
bashing his head in multiple times with
a makwa wilt ambar sacrifices red to eat
papaloot as retribution for everything
he and his brother have done red's head
is then bitten cleaned off by the
goddess's
teeth the goddess stays true to her
title of death and rebirth as she
initially withered away in defeat but
was reborn when she was offered another
sacrifice in the film's final scene
ombar limps away victorious and now sees
the ghost of red now bound to the house
just like the previous woman he
sacrificed as she approaches the front
doors her ankle is magically healed as a
result of having offered red to the
goddess her face now displays the same
pulsating veins as the back of becker's
head showing that the goddess now holds
influence over her while initially
appearing relieved her expression turns
to that of despair and possibly regret
she realizes that she is now bound to
the goddess and must keep sacrificing
the lives of others in order to live as
the movie ends this is a very
bittersweet ending for ambar in my
opinion even though she survived
she must now sacrifice the lives of
others in order to live on this is a
direct contrast to her previously having
to sacrifice and put her own life on
hold for someone else in a sense this
serves as a form of punishment for
killing her own mother on the other hand
she practically has her own house now
and doesn't have to worry about
struggling anymore she also has the
chance to help other undocumented
immigrants by offering them a home given
she doesn't offer them up as a sacrifice
she could in a way become a vigilante
and sacrifice those who prey on and take
advantage of undocumented immigrants
just like red and becker did they lured
defenseless women they knew had nowhere
else to go and that no one would come
looking for a tragic reflection of the
very real horrors of human smuggling and
trafficking and that was no one gets out
alive my friends this was a very
enjoyable movie that followed a similar
narrative structure to the ritual which
makes sense being that they are both
based on books by the same author the
film was beautifully shot and had a
really touching story of overcoming
personal struggles in trying to make it
in this cold and cruel world just like
the ritual before it the creature design
of its papalot was definitely the
highlight of the film and deserves
praise and recognition i definitely
recommend this film to horror fans
looking for an engaging story that
explores real life horrors still going
on today but ladies and gentlemen as
always i hope you enjoyed the video
thank you all for tuning in and i cannot
wait to see y'all right back here in the
horror mine y'all stick around